In order to feed our hardworking Bethel families throughout the world, thousands of meals are prepared each day.
Needless to say, much work goes into this food preparation.
But this isn't the only food being prepared at Bethel.
There is a banquet of rich dishes and fine wine that we call spiritual food.
The real source of such food is Jehovah, because it is based solidly on his inspired word.
But how do we show our appreciation for this food? Let's find out.
Let's open our Bibles now to Proverbs chapter 2 and we are going to read verses 1 through 4.
Proverbs 2, 1 through 4.
My Son, if you accept my sayings and treasure up my commandments by making your ear attentive to wisdom
and inclining your heart to discernment. Moreover, if you call out for understanding and raise your voice for discernment,
if you keep seeking for it as for silver and you keep searching for it as for hidden treasures, notice that Jehovah does not force feed us spiritual food.
But he appeals to our free will.
If we show Jehovah we are eager to receive his teachings, if we put forth the effort, if we keep seeking and searching, consider the reward.
We receive the key to unlock the hidden treasures and find the knowledge of God.
But if we are to find the knowledge of God and to grow spiritually and become mature Christians, we must know how to study.
Therefore, in this program we are going to share five ways to help us get the most out of our study.
Now the first point is in verse 1. Proverbs chapter 2 and verse 1.
My Son, if you accept my sayings.
Now the majority of our viewers agree with us when we say that the Bible is no ordinary book, we accept it as it is, the Word of God.
Now we may say we accept the Bible's teachings, but does our life show that we accept it? Do we allow it to shape and mold our lives?
Much depends on our attitude.
Our attitude toward accepting and applying the Word of God is like a valve. It can either impede or increase the flow of Holy Spirit.
During your study periods, open that valve wide, allow the Bible into your life. Then God's Word can affect you profoundly.
You will see changes in your life that only the power of the Bible truth can bring about.
Think about how accepting Jehovah's ways is saving you from a bad course as stated at Proverbs chapter 2 and verse 11 and 12.
Let's illustrate how this works when we do our Bible reading.
Open your Bible to Deuteronomy chapter 17 and verse 16.
Now we're going to use this verse to make all five points come alive. Now try to picture yourself in this verse.
You are a king over the nation of Israel. You are surrounded by powerful nations. Let's read the verse, verse 16, Deuteronomy 17.
However, he, now that's you, should not acquire many horses for himself or make the people go back to Egypt in order to obtain more horses.
Few horses for the king. That means no calvary in the battlefield to a war strategist that might have sounded like terrible advice.
Horses were mighty weapons of war. This is where thinking ability comes in.
How will obeying this command save the nation from a bad course? Would you accept this as the word of God?
You would if you applied our second point as mentioned in Proverbs chapter 2 1b.
Now it says Proverbs chapter 2 1b and treasure up my commandments.
Now millions believe the Bible is God's word, but they don't treasure it. What makes us different?
We realize that every word from Jehovah is of value. We see the positive results when we apply what we learn.
As Proverbs chapter 2 and verse 10 states,
When wisdom enters your heart and knowledge becomes pleasant to your soul.
Wisdom enters our heart and motivates us when you treasure God's precious sayings and experience the beneficial effect they have on you personally.
Then you become more convinced of the rightness of Jehovah's way of doing things. His sayings really are something to treasure.
So what treasure can we glean from Deuteronomy 1716?
No horses, no cavalry? When they obeyed that command Israel had no national chariot force.
But what did they have? They had victory after victory. They defeated 31 Canaanite nations greater than them.
They took control of the promised land. They received the fulfillment of God's promises without a chariot force.
Do you see the treasure in that?
The third point we want to discuss is in verse 2 which says,
By making your ear attentive to wisdom.
We want to make our ear attentive to wisdom. How do we do that?
After reading God's word, listen.
Listen by looking for life application principles.
Faith involves more than just reading a statement. It results in action.
So as you meditate on God's word, try to single out specific lessons and ask yourself, how can I apply this?
Let's go back to our example of Deuteronomy 1716.
Solomon read Deuteronomy 1716, but did he really listen?
No, he multiplied horses. In fact, he built whole cities to house and support his chariot forces.
Now what about us? How are we doing? Are we just reading or are we listening?
In other words, we may ask ourselves, what action in my life would indicate to Jehovah that I am trusting him more fully?
Is my ear attentive?
Solomon was one of the wisest men who ever lived. He wrote the words we've been discussing in Proverbs chapter 2.
So why didn't he apply them? Why didn't he make his ear attentive to Jehovah's directive in Deuteronomy?
Why did he accumulate horses? Because he did not apply point 4.
You recall Proverbs chapter 2 to B. It says, and inclining your heart to discernment.
Later in life, the problem was not Solomon's reading ability. He was a smart man, but his heart deep down, it seems he thought his way was better as we make our ear attentive.
We will find things we need to change. Studying with the goal of making personal application will challenge us to our core.
When we discover we are not doing things Jehovah's way, will our heart move us to discern Jehovah's will before starting each study session?
We must ask him to incline our heart to see what is needed to give us the strength to do things his way.
For example, ask yourself, if I had been Solomon, would I have acted in harmony with what is stated at Deuteronomy 1716?
If you are not inclined to agree, would your heart or your feelings move you to discern if there was a deeper reason for Jehovah to set this regulation?
Search your heart now. Do you honestly believe Jehovah would require something that would put his people in danger? Will you incline your heart to seek the lesson behind his requirement?
For example, let's go back to the prohibition of Deuteronomy 1716. Think of David, Solomon's father, when facing an ammonite and Syrian army of 32,000 chariots.
Did it make any sense for David not to have a cavalry of his own? Imagine now that you are a foot soldier in the Israelite army.
All you have is a sword and a shield. Would you have questioned the king's decision? Would you discern that this really was best for the nation?
Yes, because you accepted God's word. You treasured it up. You made your ear attentive. You incline your heart. You follow through. That's why you are there.
Imagine, as you draw up in the battle formation against such a formidable enemy. You see the horses, nostrils, flaring. You can taste the dust kicked up by the 32,000 chariots. You hear the war cry of these mighty warriors. How do you feel?
Are you nervous? The account recorded at 1 Chronicles 19 says that against all odds, the enemies turned around and fled. The lesson, despite any human tendency to doubt or rationalize, you clearly see that following Jehovah's way is always the best, this surest way for our protection and prosperity.
When we experienced Jehovah's saving hand in our lives, and we see how he wants to benefit us, we're hooked. Our hearts are touched, and we want more of that in our lives. We've seen the value of these precious truths that makes us look forward to our study. We can't wait to keep digging.
Let's read verse 4, and highlight our fifth point. If you keep seeking for it as for silver, and you keep searching for it as for hidden treasures, when we seek and search for more details, we find the key to unlock hidden treasures.
For example, let us seek more details on Deuteronomy 1716. Was there any practical reason for the Israelites not to employ horses in battle? Pull out our tools, look at our map in the good land brochure.
Israel's largely a hilly country. A cavalry is most effective in flat, open low planes, not on hills and mountains. Might that fact have led some to draw the wrong conclusions about Jehovah's ability to save his people? Digging deeper, using our research publications gives us more details.
Insight, volume 1, under the heading, chariot, reveals that the enemies of Jehovah tried to lure his people to fight on flat land.
As first kings chapter 20 makes clear, they thought Jehovah is a god of mountains. Really? Jehovah can only fight in the mountains? The great defeat those enemies suffered proved that our Almighty God is also a god of planes.
What was the main reason for victory in the battle? Horses and cavalry, the terrain, or Jehovah? The answer is obvious.
Because of your seeking and searching, you have found a treasure most of the world doesn't even know exists. You now understand what Proverbs 25 calls the fear of Jehovah.
At the conclusion of a study session, thank Jehovah for the treasure of his word. Like a child eager to relate every detail to a parent, tell Jehovah what you learn from your Bible study. Ask him to help you apply his teachings in your life.
Use our five points from Proverbs 2 to help build an appetite for the banquet of rich dishes and fine wine our Father has lovingly provided.
Let's review. 1. First, we want to accept God's Word. Adjust the valve of our attitude and allow Jehovah's precious thoughts to mold and shape our life.
2. We treasure up Jehovah's sayings. We do this when we acknowledge the beneficial effect God sayings have on us personally.
3. We discuss the importance of making our ear attentive. This happens when we sing aloud specific lessons and act to apply them in our life.
Our fourth point emphasized the need to incline our hearts toward discernment. We do this by begging Jehovah to give us the strength to do things his way and to live in a way that makes his heart rejoice.
Our fifth point encouraged us to keep seeking and searching by digging deeper using our research publications to glean even more details.
These are just a few ways to enhance our appreciation for spiritual food. Now is the time to deepen our knowledge and fortify our faith.
May we heed Jesus' counsel to work for the food that is spiritual food that remains forever lasting life.